Chapter 2 - Creating Tables
- Column names represent discrete data elements defined by a data type
	- bigserial: integer that auto-increments (postgres specific)
		- no need to insert this because it will automatically go
	- varchar: strings with mac lengths specified
	- covered more thoroughly in chapter 4
- Not covering table constraints for now
- Text and quotes require numbers, numbers don't
- General convention is to use underscores in naming
- Double quotes and single quotes are not interchangeable

Chapter 3 - Select
- * is a called a wildcard, a stand-in for a value. It represents everything that a value could be.
	- SELECT * fetches the rows and columns of a specified table
- % is a wildcard. It represents one or more characters
	- Eg. 'a%' means words that start with a, '%a' means words that end with a, '%a%' is words with a inside it.
- _ is a wildcard that means just one character
- Usually more standard to select columns from tables
- Use this to start exploring your data, checking whether the data is present/in the expected format
- ORDER BY can be used to sort values without changing the original table. It can accept numbers instead of column names, with numbers identifying the sort column according to its position in relation to the selected columns
	- Can be used on strings to sort alphabetically, can kind of group named groups together
	- Can be used multiple times to group then sort, but will eventually hit a wall where you can't tell the differences. Better to choose key columns and observe those.
- DISTINCT eliminates duplicates, showing us only unique values.
	- Can be used to find spelling mistakes, incorrectly formatted dates, etc.
	- For each X in the table, what are all the Y values?
- WHERE limits the rows a query returns
	- =: equal to
	- <> or !=: not equal to
	- <, >: less than, greater than
	- <=, >=: less than or equal to, greater than or equal to
	- BETWEEN: within a range (inclusive)
	- IN: match one set of values
		- WHERE last_name IN ('Bush', 'Roush')
	- LIKE: match a pattern (case sensitive)
		- WHERE first_name LIKE 'Sam%'
	- ILIKE: match a pattern (case insensitive, postgres only)
		- WHERE first_name ILIKE 'sam%'
	- NOT: negates a condition
		- WHERE first_name NOT ILIKE 'sam%'

- General convention:
	SELECT column_names
	FROM  table_name
	WHERE criteria
	ORDER BY column_names;

Chapter 4: Understanding Data Types
- In SQL dbs, each column can only hold one data type
- Character Types:
	- char(n): a fixed-length column where the character length is specified by n. The column stores n characters per row, no matter how you insert. Postgres will pad everything with spaces. Aka character(n)
	- varchar(n) is a column where the max length is specified by n. Postgres will not store extra spaces. Saves space in large dbs. Aka character varying(n)
	- text: unlimited length variable. Longest is allgedly 1 gb. Not a SQL standard but common in other db systems
	- There are no performance differences between the three types, just storage differences
- COPY table_name FROM is the importing function
- COPY table_name TO is the exporting function
- Number Types:
	- SQL uses integers: whole numbers, both positive and negative
		- smallint: \[-32768, 32767], 2 bytes
		- integer: \[-2147483648, 2147483647], 4 bytes
		- bigint: \[-9223372036854775808, 9223372036854775807], 8 bytes
		- Will return an out of range error if outside of these limits
	- Serial Data types: auto incrementing integers
		- smallserial: \[1, 32767], 2 bytes
		- serial: \[1, 2147483647], 4 bytes
		- bigserial: \[1, 9223372036854775807], 8 bytes
		- A serial type that is declared and followed by GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY tells the db to fill it with an auto-incremented value and can not be user-inserted. 
		- If it is declared and followed by GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY, the db will fill it with an auto-incremented value by default if the user does not supply one
	- SQL also uses fixed-point and floating-point: two formats of fractions of whole numbers
		- Fixed-point types (aka arbitrary precision type) is numeric. You give the argument precision as the max number to the left and right of the decimal point.
			- decimal(precision, scale) or numeric(precision, scale): up to 131,072 before decimal point and 16,383 after
				- Not specifying a scale will turn it into an integer
		- Floating-point types, aka variable-precision types store the number in parts representing the digits and an exponent. The point can "float" depending on the number, but are inexact in like calculations and stuff
			- real: 6 decimal digit precision, 4 bytes
			- double precision: 15 decimal digits precision, 8 bytes
- When working with numbers, try to use integers. Choose numerical/decimal when you need calculations (like money), try to use something big enough
- Databases have an awareness of the current time zone and can handle dates, times, and calendar nuances
	- timestamp: \[4713BC, 294276AD], date and time, 8 bytes. recommended to use with "with time zone", postgres has timestamptz
	- date: \[4713BC, 5874897AD], date, 4 bytes
	- time: \[00:00:00, 24:00:00], time, 8 bytes
	- interval: +/-1780,000,000 years, time interval
- Other misc types:
	- json: stores exact copy of JSON text
	- jsonb: stores JSON text in a binary format
	- Boolean: true/false
	- Geometric types include points, lines, circles, and other 2D objects
	- Text search types: postgres' full-text search enginer
	- Network address types: IP and MAC addresses
	- UUID type: sometimes used as a unique key value in tables
	- Range types: specify a range of values, such as ints or timestamps
	- Types for storing binary data
	- XML type that stores info in structured format
- you can use function CAST() to convert data types if the target can acomodate the original value
	- eg. CAST(timestamp_column AS varchar(10))
	- Shorthand notation is ::, so timestamp_column::varchar(10)
